skills/feishu-active-listener/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: feishu-active-listener
description: Analyze group chat history for social engagement opportunities (e.g. congratulations, support) WITHOUT explicit mentions. Use this when the user asks to "check missed messages" or "be more social".
usage: node index.js '<json_message_object>'
---

# Feishu Active Listener (飞书主动监听器)

This skill implements the "Active Listener" pattern, allowing the bot to detect and respond to social cues in group chats without requiring explicit mentions. It works in tandem with the `group-chat-sentinel` to ensure high-quality, non-intrusive engagement.

## 🚀 Setup & Configuration

### 1. Feishu Permissions
To receive all group messages (not just mentions), your Feishu App needs:
- **Scope:** `im:message.group_msg:read` (Read group messages)
- **Scope:** `im:message:read` (Read messages)

### 2. OpenClaw Gateway Config
In your Gateway configuration (or `openclaw.config.json`):
- Set `requireMention: false` for the Feishu channel.
- This enables the stream of all group messages to reach the bot.

### 3. Skill Configuration (`config.json`)
Edit `/home/node/.openclaw/workspace/skills/feishu-active-listener/config.json`:

```json
{
  "botId": "cli_a7fb...",        // Your Bot's Open ID
  "socialKeywords": ["哈哈", "cool"], // Keywords to trigger social replies
  "taskKeywords": ["help", "run"],    // Keywords to AVOID (leave for explicit tasks)
  "ignoreBots": true             // Ignore other bots to prevent loops
}
```

## 🧠 Logic Flow

1.  **Identity Gate:** Ignores own messages and other bots.
2.  **Anti-Hijack:** Ignores messages that `@mention` other people.
3.  **Task Filter:** Ignores messages containing "task words" (e.g., "draw", "code") to avoid stealing complex tickets.
4.  **Social Trigger:** If a "social keyword" is found (e.g., "congrats", "lol"), signals a `REPLY` opportunity.

## 🤝 Integration with Sentinel

This skill acts as a **Sensor** for the **Sentinel**.

1.  **Input:** Raw message stream.
2.  **Active Listener:** Filters noise, identifies potential hits.
3.  **Sentinel:** Decides *whether* to act on that hit based on context, mood, and frequency limits.

## 🏗️ Installation & Setup (Mandatory)

To make this skill effective, you MUST integrate it into your runtime loop.

**Option 1: The "Sentinel" Integration (Recommended)**
If you are using `group-chat-sentinel`, this listener is already logically integrated as the "Sense" layer. No extra config needed.

**Option 2: Standalone Periodic Check**
If running standalone, add this to your `HEARTBEAT.md` or schedule a Cron job:
- **Command:** `node skills/feishu-active-listener/index.js '<last_message_json>'`
- **Purpose:** To proactively scan for engagement opportunities even when not mentioned.

## 📝 Usage Example

```bash
node index.js '{"content": "哈哈，太强了", "senderId": "ou_123", "senderType": "user", "mentionsMe": false, "mentionsOthers": []}'
```

**Output:**
```json
{
  "action": "REPLY",
  "reason": "Social keyword detected",
  "suggestion": "DETECTED_SOCIAL_OPPORTUNITY"
}
```

Commit message:

docs(active-listener): Add critical recommendation to install Group Chat Sentinel as companion

skills/feishu-active-listener/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: feishu-active-listener
description: Analyze group chat history for social engagement opportunities (e.g. congratulations, support) WITHOUT explicit mentions. Use this when the user asks to "check missed messages" or "be more social".
usage: node index.js '<json_message_object>'
---

# Feishu Active Listener (飞书主动监听器)

This skill implements the "Active Listener" pattern, allowing the bot to detect and respond to social cues in group chats without requiring explicit mentions.

> **⚠️ CRITICAL RECOMMENDATION:**
> This skill detects *opportunities*, but does not filter for *social context* (e.g., is it appropriate to speak now?).
> **You are strongly advised to install [Group Chat Sentinel](../group-chat-sentinel/SKILL.md)** alongside this skill.
>
> - **Listener:** "I found a trigger!" (The Ear)
> - **Sentinel:** "Should we actually reply?" (The Brain)
>
> *Running Listener without Sentinel may result in "over-eager" or spammy behavior.*

## 🚀 Setup & Configuration

### 1. Feishu Permissions
To receive all group messages (not just mentions), your Feishu App needs:
- **Scope:** `im:message.group_msg:read` (Read group messages)
- **Scope:** `im:message:read` (Read messages)

### 2. OpenClaw Gateway Config
In your Gateway configuration (or `openclaw.config.json`):
- Set `requireMention: false` for the Feishu channel.
- This enables the stream of all group messages to reach the bot.

### 3. Skill Configuration (`config.json`)
Edit `/home/node/.openclaw/workspace/skills/feishu-active-listener/config.json`:

```json
{
  "botId": "cli_a7fb...",        // Your Bot's Open ID
  "socialKeywords": ["哈哈", "cool"], // Keywords to trigger social replies
  "taskKeywords": ["help", "run"],    // Keywords to AVOID (leave for explicit tasks)
  "ignoreBots": true             // Ignore other bots to prevent loops
}
```

## 🧠 Logic Flow

1.  **Identity Gate:** Ignores own messages and other bots.
2.  **Anti-Hijack:** Ignores messages that `@mention` other people.
3.  **Task Filter:** Ignores messages containing "task words" (e.g., "draw", "code") to avoid stealing complex tickets.
4.  **Social Trigger:** If a "social keyword" is found (e.g., "congrats", "lol"), signals a `REPLY` opportunity.

## 🤝 Integration with Sentinel

This skill acts as a **Sensor** for the **Sentinel**.

1.  **Input:** Raw message stream.
2.  **Active Listener:** Filters noise, identifies potential hits.
3.  **Sentinel:** Decides *whether* to act on that hit based on context, mood, and frequency limits.

## 🏗️ Installation & Setup (Mandatory)

To make this skill effective, you MUST integrate it into your runtime loop.

**Option 1: The "Sentinel" Integration (Recommended)**
If you are using `group-chat-sentinel`, this listener is already logically integrated as the "Sense" layer. No extra config needed.

**Option 2: Standalone Periodic Check**
If running standalone, add this to your `HEARTBEAT.md` or schedule a Cron job:
- **Command:** `node skills/feishu-active-listener/index.js '<last_message_json>'`
- **Purpose:** To proactively scan for engagement opportunities even when not mentioned.

## 📦 Dependencies & Companions

| Skill | Relationship | Why you need it |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **[Group Chat Sentinel](../group-chat-sentinel/SKILL.md)** | 🛡️ **Brain / Guardrail** | **Essential.** Prevents the listener from triggering on every "haha" or "congrats" when the mood isn't right. |
| **Feishu Common** | 🔧 **Library** | Required for API calls (implicit dependency). |

## 📝 Usage Example

```bash
node index.js '{"content": "哈哈，太强了", "senderId": "ou_123", "senderType": "user", "mentionsMe": false, "mentionsOthers": []}'
```

**Output:**
```json
{
  "action": "REPLY",
  "reason": "Social keyword detected",
  "suggestion": "DETECTED_SOCIAL_OPPORTUNITY"
}
```
